UNKNOWN
Yeah. Oh. Yeah. Exactly. Mm. Mm mm. Mm mm. All right. Good morning. So this is computer security. It's, uh, probably the largest class I've taught so far. I expected it to be a little bit smaller. Everybody's here for computer security, right? DoD might be a little bit smarter with it being in an early morning class. But a lot of your morning people. I guess it's good. Um, so what we're going to do today is, uh, we just want to do an introduction to the course. Um, I'm going to. I already emailed to helpdesk to see if we can get this shifted down. Um, this projector here, because we are going to be doing a lot of hands on things in this class. Uh, and so I want you to be able to see what we have on the screen. Um, but before we do an overview of the class and get you set up for it. Um, I just want to go around the room, and I know there's a lot of people in here. Uh, so we got to do this quick. Okay. But I want, uh, if you just give me your name and then what? You hope to get out of the course. That's the second part. Well, both parts are really important to me, but the second part is really important to me. Because if I hear a lot of people talk about cryptography, they'll focus on that, okay. And if you say you want to get an A out of the course, that's a perfectly fine answer to okay. So how about we start over here and then we'll just kind of go like a snake and then stick around. So today we hope you got the question over. I really just want to know because, um, a lot of, um, it's. One of the requirements for nutrition. Okay. My name is David. And then it's kind of the same. We're on the. Same page. I don't even know about that. Okay, okay. Then if you guys can speak up a little bit, I know there's a lot of people checking in now. I am. Well, um. Yeah, I just want to read a bit more about this. Okay. I'm Andre, and first of all, computer security is a requirement. Second of all, what is common interest in cyber security? I break my heart talking about security being a requirement. That's why you're here. It's okay. Half the reason I'm Caleb, and I just want to get to an explanation. Oh, okay. Interesting. All right. That's a more specific answer. Okay, back to work. Okay, Maggie. Uh, just applications to work in general. In general. Okay, I'm ready to go. Okay. James. I was. Just interested. Okay. Uh. I'm dead. And I thought the course looked interesting. I know there's a coding component. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Uh, Alex and, uh, I don't really know you right now. Okay. That's all right. That's okay. Uh, Jeremy, I guess I'm just curious to know Okay. Um. You know what? That's all right. If you guys don't mind speaking up. All right, acoustics up here in this room was probably done well before I was born. And just general in general. Okay. That's right. Oh, I'm sorry about that. Have anything specific in mind? But I look at the listing. Okay. All right. I feel, uh, general in general. Okay. Uh, no. Why not? Okay. I don't know about you. I'm, uh. I'm. I'm just interested in learning more about you. Okay. Oh, yeah. Actually, I think the description was pretty interesting. Okay. Okay, Tyler. I'm interested in cybersecurity. Okay. General level systems expertise. Okay. Sorry. Okay. Okay. Okay. Hi, there. And I'm here. What's that? No, it's. Okay. I just. Um. Uh, it's one of those requirements as well. Okay. I'm just. Looking for, like, a general range of coverage to get a good foundation. Okay. And. Um. Uh, I just I want to learn how to make your software. Good. Good. Okay. Fair enough. Good. Okay. I'm here right now. So I don't really know much about it. I want to impose on these things because. The company is interested. I understand and advocate for the application of it. Yeah. Okay. And of course, like this. Okay. Right. That's so important. I'm sorry that I don't really know much about you. Okay. All right. I'm just interested in the topic. I need to. Think about it. I just want to learn how to vote. Good. And I want to get that information. Okay. I'm Ari. General. I'm general manager. Of the project. Requirement. For. That. Description. Okay. All right. Okay. I mean, I don't know. I guess I just want to understand, like, different ways of data can be helpful. Okay. Hold. On. Okay. Um. Like a general knowledge and or. Description. Of such things that are more important than others. I agree. I agree. I'm pretty interested in cybersecurity in general, And I guess I want to love a lot more than that. Or what? I'm about to call you out. So that means starting up a new group. Can you talk about it for sure? Um, it's not an official group, but it's a cyber security related group. Uh, cyber crew. I'll put a link up on canvas for the discord channel. So go to USG right now. So it means part of the UK or part of the unified scheme. So if you're interested in starting security and learning about some of these exploitations and hacks and stuff like that, um, yeah, we'll put a link up for that. So Lucas, take general interest. Um, obviously, I think that you're going to actually start to defend against. Right? Yes. Of course. Yeah. Okay. I said that. I. Had. Been waiting for a long time. Okay. I'm older than. I'm interested in learning about this subject for you. My name is William. Yes. I got the basic foundations through social contract. That's right. Okay. I am. Not sure you know everything about security software. Okay, I know where I'm going to develop it. So I want to like you. But I want you to do it. I just did it. Okay. I'm here. Okay. I'm on it. I just want to make What's up dude? Okay, Sam. I like you guys like yourself. Okay, we'll talk about that later. Yeah. Um. I'm exploring, uh, security. Okay. Thanks for coming. Back. Uh uh. Uh. I will. I just need to work by force, so I get a summary of those. Okay. It's a bad story, but. I'm. I'm sure you're right. This is going to be okay. I know I read it. And I was just curious about what I would like to say. I think what I just thought was a useful topic. Okay, cool. I'm happy to talk to you. I appreciate it. I'm interested in security. Okay. How do you. Feel about your experience? All right. Good, good, good. So, um, I think we got all around the the room. Um, so that's good. So I hear a lot of things about just general interest in computer security. General interest in cyber security. Uh, so you talked about keeping yourself safe. Yeah. I'm sorry. Are you going to be covering any of my security checks? Well, yeah. So here's the thing. The course cyber security can be an entire major. It is entire major all by itself. Um, so what we try to do in this course is to give you an exposure to a bunch of different areas. Um, some areas you go a little bit deeper where I think you might apply to, um, more people. Uh, so we'll definitely go deeper on cryptography. Not the math behind it. There's actually a separate course with that. Um, but we'll take a look at it from the five sides. Um, because there's a lot of interest in people running software in this course. I'm going to focus also on writing secure software, and then also how to attack software on the embedded side or the highway side, we just spend a little bit of time on it. We'll take a look at some of the common threads with it, but without having you to purchase a device, it's a lot harder. That's a different one. Yeah, it's a good question. Good question. So yeah. So a lot of you talked about writing secure software. There's definitely gonna be a focus of that in this course. So. All right. So what I want you to do and let's try to do this. Let's see where we're at. Maybe like in five minutes I want you to get in groups of 2 to 3. Um, there's group work involved in this class. And I want you to introduce yourselves, because as we went around the room, introduce yourselves to each other, because as we were running around the room, we probably forgot the names. I certainly did. Okay. And now what I want you to do is take a look at the entries, review the syllabus, and then come up with 2 to 3 questions within your group. Or if you have more, that's okay. Come up with more. Okay. So let's think about five minutes to this group. Reintroduce yourself. Go through your syllabus. Come up with a list of questions. And then what I'll do is I'll create a node with those questions. Now post it on canvas so that if you ever wonder what was the answer to that question, you can go back and have this. All right. So we'll see. We're at about five minutes 2 to 3. Let me get it. Out. And the syllabus is on canvas. You'll find it there. Oh, there's also an AP doc on campus. Please refer to that as well. Okay. Lovely. Thank you. Thank. You for. Your question. Those are just two. Questions? Yeah. Directly in front. Of us. So. That's my guess. That's. God. Have mercy. On. Us and for us. It's all about. The fires. Yeah. Yeah. It's. All right. How many groups are done? I will give it a few more minutes. A few more minutes. You can ask any questions. Any questions? Yes. Daniels. Yes. Yes. Yes. Jesus Christ. Alright, who wants to get us started? What group wants to go first? If you got a question, you guys speak loud too. Yeah. Um, so I saw there are quizzes. Uh, when are those quizzes? And, uh, how do those things. Okay. And just so you know, uh, what I'll do is I'm going to go through all the questions first. Now I'll go through and answer them. Okay. What other questions you guys have? Um, uh, I guess about like, the VM creation assignment that's assigned today. Kind of. What's going on out there? Um, what is going on? What is it, I guess? Oh, and with the what? What, uh, coding. Uh, will we use? Okay, good, good. All right. Yeah. Uh. What do. Yeah. Okay. Any others? Yeah. Usually you talk about yourself a little bit. I know, you know, like, I get an outline because I, like, I have an outline for our first day of class. Every class I do because I get excited. And I forgot to introduce myself. So we're going to do that. Okay. Um, I'm gonna make a reminder. Right. All right. Other questions? Yeah. Questions? Questions. I know there's more. Yeah. For my teachers, I have a, um, processor, and I can install a virtual machine, but it works out to a year after year after year. It doesn't. Yeah. Really? Yeah. I never saw it. I'm like, what are you using for it? What software? Um. I tried to calm her. Okay. Did you try VirtualBox? Okay. Or even, um. Uh, VMware. I tried that, you tried fusion? Okay. Maybe try VirtualBox and then let me know. Okay. All right. Good question. No other questions. Yeah. Does this course assume knowledge of material responses or the circumstances. And then also when it comes to exam season, uh, what kinds of preparation? Uh, what is really required is that kind of question. Right. Um, would you call it exam season? Season. How should we hunt now? Um, what kind of prep, uh, tips that you have? Good question. All right. Other questions? Yeah. Exam and of course responsibility. Yeah. I'll talk about that. Yeah. Can you, can you talk Hands on stuff. So he expanded on that by asking what kind of stuff you want to do? Gotcha. Okay. Good, good. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Do you want to take a nap or whatever? I'm sorry. Say it again. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Yeah. What are they? What else? Okay. And I saw one over there. Are you serious? It's cumulative. And then there's no hit. Yeah. All right. To collaborate. On what? Collaborate on assignments. Okay. Questions and Assignments. Other questions? Yeah. What are the assignments going to look like? Okay. What. Well, yes I was. Look, I think this is going to be announced. Are they going to be surprised? I don't know. I see. Okay. Okay. I saw a hand up around here. Yeah. Is there any attendance? Is there any attendance policy? Okay. Yeah. We just want to open it up. Yeah. Sorry. Can you speak that a little louder? Okay. Yeah. Yeah, we got that already. Other questions? Yeah. How much time should we expect this? I know that's a tricky one. Yeah, that's a good question, but how much time should we expect to work on these items? Okay. Other questions. I see. Oh, yeah. Is there any code? Is there any code? And code. Okay. Other questions. All right. So let me start working through this. So I forgot to introduce myself. So I'm just going to take that one off. I don't want to take that out so I apologize. So I'm doctor Brian Krupp. This is my first year at Case Western Reserve University. Before this, I spent about a decade at Baldwin Wallace University. Um, I just made the change over to. So just the other way down the highway. Um, before, uh, before going to academia, I worked in the industry in a variety of roles. So one of my first roles actually started off in And cyber security. I used to work with Pete Bay for the security infrastructure team, and then their information security division did some ethical hacking of their applications, their services, like that kind of thing. After that, I was in their enterprise architecture teams who were responsible for the security architecture for the bank. Uh, at that moment in time, I decided or we decided to start, try to start a family. And I wanted some less hours at work in a place that had a little bit more work life balance. So I moved over to pilot software. I became a mobile developer there. I am going there to the other side. Take care so I can hang out with my son, uh, while I work. Uh, we'll sort of hang out, right? I don't want to keep doing all these people. Right. Yeah. Um, but, uh, but then, uh, during that time, uh, I thought, of course, at TI because we had a lot of windows engineers that wanted to become Linux engineers. And I taught a ten week course there, they're teaching them how to become system engineer friends. And after that, I felt like, oh, I really like teaching. And so I started a long journey, uh, from my master's getting my doctorate, uh, while working full time. And, uh, after three years at Highland, a job opened up at VW, which is where I got my undergrad degree from. And so that's how I got back. Uh, I'll, uh, I'll go over my office hours and, uh, the expectations for, you know, replying to email and stuff like that. Um, but, uh, I tend to be here about 730 in the morning. Uh, I tried to leave here before for to beat my car on the way home. Uh, I don't typically, you know, stay late here because I come in fairly early, uh, and at night, I do try to disconnect because I got two little ones. Well, some little ones, 12 and ones, and they're still little to me. Uh, and right now, they still cook out. Cool. So I still want to spend time with them. So a couple of years, I think that's already starting to shift with the 12 year old. Um, so but anyway, so that's a little bit about me. Uh, but I'll go over like the syllabus and contact information and things like that. All right. So I'm going to start answering these questions and then um, and I'll let you see. This is like a terrible placement. Um, I'll post the answer to those two. Uh, so you can see my canvas. Uh, but when are the quizzes, how do they work? Uh, every Thursday, mostly we will have quizzes. Uh, starting this Thursday. So we're not going to do any cybersecurity content this Thursday. So what do you think the quiz would be on? The syllabus. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be really low stakes. Okay. So as long as you're not, you know playing some app or game on your, on your phone and you're paying attention, you'll be just fine. Okay. But part of it is also for you to get like an easy quiz grade. Okay. But that will be starting this Thursday. You got five minutes to complete the quiz. It is time. It's in canvas. It's always multiple choice. Uh, true. False. Maybe multiple answer. Okay. Very rarely. Fill in the blank. All right. So really, it should be you know, you just knock it out. You're done. And after that, we go on with class. Okay. So it is time. There won't be any passcodes on the first two quizzes because students can add the course later. But after that, there will be a passcode on the quiz, which I will announce in class. So you do need to be in class to do the quiz. Okay. VM creation assignment. What is going on? So, uh, this course is hands on. Uh, and so what I mean by hands on is we're not going to be, you know, trying to break into a room. We're not going to do physical security. Uh, but we're going to be doing stuff on a Linux VM. And, uh, because we're going to be doing stuff that can break that VM, um, can tweak that VM and so on. Uh, we want to make it to where each one has our own individual VM. I also think it's a good exercise to learn how to set up a test environment. So you will need a laptop, Uh, for this course, uh, you will need to follow the instructions in the document to either install VMware workstation or VirtualBox, and then set up either an ubuntu VM or some sort of other Linux distro. Okay. So the instructions are in the document there. The software that you will use for it is free. Okay. So you don't have to pay for it. Uh, there is if you're running a mac, there is a version of software that I use called parallels that I purchased that is not free. There might be a free trial, but I don't think it's long enough to do the entire course with. But there's there's VirtualBox, there's UTM, there's, um, fusions. There's a bunch of different versions that you can use. Okay. And then if you have questions about this, any of the answers, let me know. So of course is hands on. Um, we need a VM to do some of our work. All right. The language we'll use primarily is Java. And then we will study PHP. If you don't know PHP, that's fine. We're going to spend a day actually going over to basics of it. We're going to do that so that we can discover. And some people associate PHP with web vulnerabilities. That's because it's one of the most widely used languages on the web. It's not a vulnerable language by default, but it's very easy to write vulnerable code in the database. Okay. So we'll spend a day learning PHP, and then we'll actually take a look at vulnerabilities and write things up. Do we have the option to not write in Java. You do that. Yeah. Sorry. Yeah. The first is the first assignment is in Java. So do you have open office hours or what days of the week. So I'm just going to say refer to canvas. I list my office hours on there and what days of the week they are. I know it's Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. There will also be Tas for this course that will have office hours. Those are being finalized, and as soon as that roster is finalized, um, I will have that out on canvas as well. So if my office hours don't work for you because of a schedule, there will be at least four Tas for this course. Probably five. Okay, what if we can't install the virtual machine? Let me know and I will work with you. I'm not going to ding you because you can't install the virtual machine as long as you, you know, try it in good faith. Um, you can work. There's all the assignments are group based, with exception to the exam review assignments, which are very low stake assignments. Um, so all the assignments that require VM are group based, with the exception to the first one. So if you find that your VM is, like, finicky and you want to pair up with somebody throughout the course and work with them and do the assignments on their VM employee, fine with that. Okay. Uh, when we introduce any assignment, I will say whether or not you can work on a group and how many people can work on it in a group. Okay. All right. So for recommended prerequisites really required. Java. You need to be able to program in this course, because we're going to start with it right off the bat or very soon. So you do need that. Computer networks I will give you what you need is listed as a recommended prereq. And there was one other recommended Prereq I'm missing. Does anybody know OS. Yeah. So OS, I'm going to give you everything you need starting Thursday. All right. So the reason why that VM assignment is due Thursday before you come to class is because we're gonna get our hands dirty on the VM Thursday. So that's why I want you to have it done by that. All right. Exam season. What kind of prep tips that you have? Um, we will have, uh, an exam review assignment. Uh, I will spend time, uh, the day before the exam or the class. I don't like this. The class session before the exam, uh, reviewing the topics, uh, and one week before, uh, you will get the topics for the exam. Okay. Um, if you, uh, work on the assignments and you don't pair up with somebody and just kind of depend on them to do the work for you, if you do well in the quizzes, if you do the exam review, you should be in good shape. Okay. Um, there are a lot of pages in this course, but don't try to fail anybody. I don't try to get a certain distribution. I don't believe in that methodology. I think if you do the work and you demonstrate understanding, you should be able to get an A. Okay. Uh, what is the format of the exam? It's a mix of, uh, true, false, uh, multiple choice, uh, fill in the blank and then short answer. Okay. What is the hands on stuff? So we're gonna be doing a bunch of different things. We're going to be working with cryptography, uh, within Java and the CLI. Uh, we're going to be working with weapon test tools. Uh, so we'll actually take a look at how we can hack into a web application. We will look at privacy and how to track what applications are using or using our data. So there's a hardening and operating system so hackers can't log into it or break into it. Things like that. So there's going to be a lot of hands on stuff throughout the class. So make sure you bring your laptop every day to this class and that's fully charged. The VM does consume quite a bit of power and you can run out of battery very quickly. And I don't see I don't see outlets around. So make sure that you have it fully charged. Yeah. Yes. You want to make sure you have it fully charged. So. All right. Our lectures going to be recorded. Uh, yes. But, uh, they are in 360. Okay. But if people stop showing up, we will no longer do that. Okay. So I don't want to come in here and talk to an empty room or a room with just five people, because it's 830 and people just want to stay in their dorm in their pajamas. I love to stay my pajamas too, but I got a grip. So. So if people stop showing up, we're. No, we're not going to do that any longer. So. So make sure you show up between Grant and undergrad, there is one assignment that I'll talk about today that is a survey paper. Okay I'll talk about that here in a little bit. Other exams closed notes. Yes. Are exams cumulative? Uh, just a final. Are we allowed to collaborate on assignments? Yes, I will be clear. What will the assignments look like? Mix of programing. Breaking into things, into things, hardening things and finding things. Okay, so you're going to find some data that people think is deleted. So when you delete a file it's actually not deleted. We'll dive into that later. So if you find a USB stick well actually if you find a USB stick Don't plug it into your computer. But, um, that was actually like one of the ways, like, whenever we would, uh, attack. So what we would do is we would actually do some testing on our own lines of business, and the physical security team would actually leave a USB stick in the parking lot. And somebody always plugged it in, always plugged it in. Right. Curious. Right. What photos could be on here? Um, our quiz is announced. Yes. Every Thursday. Now, look, if we have an exam, I don't think we have an exam on a Tuesday. I'm not going to say quiz Thursday. Right? That doesn't make any sense. And if we have an exam on a Thursday, we're certainly not going to do a quiz on an exam. Uh, that's cruel and unusual. So, um, so we're not going to do that, but, uh, they will start this Thursday and they will be, uh, every Thursday. Uh, there is not an attendance policy because, uh, I don't want to waste time counting who's here and who's not. Um, as long as you show up and you do the work, you'll do well. Um, the way my attendance policy usually works out is that if you don't show up and you don't participate, They usually shows up in the final grade. Okay. So usually takes care of itself. Uh, clarification on the OpenSSL course. So this is, uh, an online course. You can get a free certificate, uh, that is by the OpenSSL Foundation with partnership with the Linux Foundation. And you get to put a badge on your resume and your LinkedIn profile. So, um, the course focuses on a variety of topics, but more on developing secure software, which is probably the number one thing I want you to get out of this course, because if you go out and work for a company and you write some code that has a SQL injection vulnerability, and somebody calls me and says, did you ever have this class? And they say, no idea who they are. In fact, I don't think they graduated from case. I mean, they graduated from university down the street. So, uh, so I really want to focus on this piece, but I also want you to get something like, like actually, like, out of this outside of, like, completing the course, um, you can put it on your resume. Okay. There's also going to be projects in this course that you do that you can put on your resume as well. So a lot of this is kind of building up your skill set, building up your resume as well. There are no extra credits throughout the semester. I find generally that they're not needed. My policy too, is that if I do an extra credit opportunity, it's for the entire class. It's not an individual basis. So if you send me an email saying, can I get some extra credit? The answer is no, because it wouldn't be fair to the student that didn't ask for it. It's not that I don't think that if there's an opportunity that's justified to get it. Uh, to to offer it. But I'm not going to do it on an individual basis. So be for the entire class. Um, so there was I thought there was a question on. Oh, no, nobody asked it here. Uh, likewise. Often the question I'll get asked is, do I do a curve? I don't do a curve because it's typically not needed. I'm not trying to make things unfair on the exam. It's things that we've talked about, things that you've practiced or where things are on the assignment. How much should we expect to work on the assignments? Uh, some, uh, very, uh, a bit some you can get done, uh, in a couple hours. Uh, some may take more time. Uh, some may take more time, depending on skill set. Um, so if you are a pretty proficient programmer, when we do the programing, you might find that you can kind of breeze through that. Um, if you feel kind of like, clumsy on the command line interface on Linux, you might find the hardening assignment to be a little bit more challenging. Um, but I think, you know, none of them are going to require, like, you know, 20 hours or anything like that. Nothing ridiculous. The one that does take some time, though, is the OpenSSL assignment. And you want to pace yourself. Um, you don't want to wait until that last week. All right. So just kind of set a goal to do a couple modules each week or maybe like even like one a week. So this way you're not scrambling towards the end of the semester. Okay. The stuff in that course also will help in the course in this course as well. So um, so they actually kind of goes both ways. All right. Is there any coding you guys want to answer for that. Yes. All right. Any questions I missed. No. All right. So I just want to do a quick review, uh, of the syllabus. I will post the answers to these questions as well. And then just do a quick review of the FAQ. And then I'm going to talk about the assignments. Come on. All right. So anytime there's going to be a change to syllabus uh I will post it up here on the syllabus doc. So anytime that you know it will get updated here. So if you ever have a question, if you're wondering if you have the latest syllabus, come here for that. Usually I don't have to change it often. Part of the exercise you just did also was to find if I had any typos or errors in the syllabus. But anyways, there's my contact information. I don't list my phone number because I don't want you to call me. Um, because it's just, I don't know, it just kind of sits there like, I don't even think we need a phone anymore. Just stop on by or shoot me an email. Uh, with emails, I respond within 24 hours during the workweek, uh, on the weekend and in the evenings. I do try to disconnect, though. Okay. So if you shoot me an email like 4:00 on a Friday, I wouldn't say expect a response to that Saturday, but if you shoot me in the morning, I'll definitely get back to you. Okay. There's my office in 0803. So it's all the way at the top. Uh, so as soon as you walk in the doors just to the left. These are the recommended prereqs. The one that you really need is programing in Java. You really don't need the other ones. I'll give you what you need here, and I'll give you what you need here. If I talk about a concept, though, and you're like, I don't know what he's talking about, he just said TCP. What is that? Is that like a club or something? Throw your hand up and let me know, because I want to pause and then go through that. Okay. I want to work at the pace that everybody can keep up with. All right. So this course does provide a general overview of security. We get a bunch of different areas. So we're not going to uh like I said cybersecurity can be a major all by itself. We will spend more time on other topics. But it really is to give you a broad understanding of computer security. Uh, computer security. Somebody mentioned as we went around the room is becoming more and more important. Uh, if you were to think about a job that you, um, don't want to outsource it, you don't want AI to control. I think cybersecurity would be a good fit. Okay. So, um, so it is a valuable, um, valuable field to get a good understanding in. Uh, textbooks have gotten out of control with pricing. Um, so I always try to find free alternatives. Um, we do have an O'Reilly license through Case Western, and there are two books that we will reference. I won't ask questions out of the book. Okay, any questions on the exam or the quiz will come from stuff that we should talk about in class. So when you see the chapter readings in the syllabus, that is more as a benefit to you to kind of help complement what we do in class. So I'll never say on chapter three, in chapter three on page 58. What is the technique? No, I'm not going to do that. Okay. But if you come up to me and just say, you know, like I'm really having a hard time understanding all this cybersecurity stuff. I'm going to ask, have you been reading the book? And if you say no, you know what? My recommendation is going to be all right. So they're there to help complement the learning. All right. So obviously we know the room because we're here. Um, the only, uh, I come from the West side, and during the winter months, the weather can be kind of iffy. I get here usually by 730. I never expect me to have an hour delay. But if I am not here at 830 or even 835, I am trying to get here. Okay. So, um, so just hang out. I will try to get here as soon as possible, but I do get here fairly early. But sometimes traffic on for 90 and 90 eastbound can get kind of wonky. So. But I don't expect anything like an hour delay. All right. So here's kind of our contract. Here's what I expect you to get out of this course. You will get a better understanding of different topics in computer security. I really want you to write secure code that's not vulnerable to common attacks. So we will focus on that. We're also going to take a look at how we can attack systems and what tools are used. I do want and I will announce this when we get closer. The tools that we take a look at I do not want you using in the wild. I don't want you trying to fish your friend or hack into some website. When we talk about ethical hacker and ethical hacker, somebody that's hired. It's not that when you get caught and you go before the judge and just said, I was trying to help them out, now I can see you in jail. Um, so, uh, so I will give you a warning, uh, with that as well. Uh, we'll take a look at how we can harden the system. So if you want to have like your own home server, what things you should do. And then we will take a look at policies and research and things like that. Different organizations including cyber group and and then you'll learn about that. So if you want to stay plugged in the expectations is getting here on time participating commit to learning. So if you just think you can show up do well in the course. You do have to do work. Outside of that, please ask questions. One of my biggest pet peeve is we do something in class. Somebody lost somebody scared to ask a question. Uh, somebody comes up after ask a question saying, you know, about ten minutes and I had no idea what you're talking about. The person behind them goes, me, too. But the unfortunate thing is, there's like 50 people walking out the door that were too scared to ask a question. So if something's not making sense, throw your hand up to say, hey, can we just go slow down or go over just a little bit? Okay. Um, if you need help, make sure that you get that help early. Um, work with the Tas that we have for the class and then get assignments and on time. The assignment policy is on the due date. Those assignments are due every day. After a 20% reduction on day three, you cannot turn it in. So you want to make sure you get them in on time. Okay. All right. So this is the schedule. Um, when I say that this is tentative and subject to change, that's kind of like the asterisk that you see, like on the bottom of, like the terms and conditions. Because if we do need to make a change to the schedule, I just want you to know, but this is the general flow of it. We're going to do an introduction. We're going to get our hands dirty with the command line interface. Um, we'll get into cryptography first. We'll take a look at certificates. Uh, then we'll start diving into network security. How are we going to do packet analysis. So we see packets coming across the wire. Uh we'll get into operating system hardening permissions, things like that, how we can configure a system. And then we'll take a look at viruses, worms and that we won't work with viruses and worms because I don't want those to get out into the wild. And then we have exam one. After exam one we start taking a look at application security and testing. I do have a conference where I'm presenting a paper on that Thursday. So we will not have class that day. But when we come back, we then take a look at some different application security tools and how we could break into web app. Then we have Spring break. After that we get into the secure software development. We'll do an introduction to PHP. So if you're not familiar with PHP, we'll spend a day introducing it. It's a pretty simple language to learn, and we're just kind of taking a look at it for the purpose of developing secure software. We'll then get into privacy, and that's what I get on my soapbox. My dissertation was on mobile privacy, so you'll have to entertain me for a little bit over maybe a class and a half, because I'll tell you about all the things you shouldn't do on your mobile app and in the web and things like that. And you'll probably think, boy, this guy is really paranoid after this, but that's okay. And then we'll get into authentication authorization, role based access control and things like that. Different frameworks. Then we'll get into security compliance. We do have to talk about some laws because I want you to be aware of them. But I'm not going to say in this section of this law, you know, what's the statute? I want you to have a general familiarity so that if you go to an interview and somebody goes, can you tell me what the PCI DSS law is about? You should be able to answer that question. Okay. Well, we'll then have exam two. And then after that we'll get into forensics. So we'll take a look at how we can find data that's supposed to be deleted. That was not deleted. Best practices for forensics X could be a career all in itself. So like sometimes you'll hear about law enforcement, you know, getting a hold of a laptop or a smartphone to find information on that. We'll do some exercises with that. We'll then get into mobile and IoT security. And so without security, we won't spend as much time as I would like on that. But we will talk about some best practices with that, and then we'll talk about some academic research in different organizations to get involved with. Our final exam period is on five six between 12 to 3 p.m.. You do have three hours to take the exam, but it shouldn't take you longer than two. Okay. It'll be essentially take you take two exams that we've done the class, put them together and then that's what you have. So, um, I've had students that, um. I'm not trying to set an expectation here that complete the exams in, like, a half hour. I'm not trying to make them, you know, very, you know, like, where you're, like, sweating and, you know, racing until last minute. So as long as you know your stuff, you should be able to get it done. Um, I have a tentative schedule of the assignments on the right column and the readings here in that middle column of what we'll be building. We'll talk more about those when that time comes. Uh, this is the breakdown of the grading. So 30% for the assignments, 10% for quizzes. Exams are 30%. And the final exam is comprehensive at 30%. The final exam. You do have to have a passing score on to pass the class. So if you get a 49 or 48 on that, unfortunately you do not pass a class because you have to demonstrate that knowledge at the end. The final exam is cumulative. All assignments are all submitted through canvas. If you work with a partner on the assignment, please make sure you put their name in the comments. Not as a comment in code. Those are harder to find. So if you work with a partner, put in the comments like within canvas on the right hand side. This way it's easy for me to to find it. On the exams, there are no makeups. If you sleep through the exam, you're not going to be able to make it up. Set an alarm, send two alarms and three alarms. Have a friend come by and wake you up. Or do whatever you got to do. Now, let's say that you're at a conference or you're a student athlete. I will absolutely work with you. But if you just forgot, you didn't show up, I'm sorry. There's consequences for that. Just like in the real world, if you just forgot, to show up for a job. You're not going to get the job. Okay, so make sure that you show up and set any alarms that you need to. Uh, with quizzes, they're meant to be taken in class. If you are completing the quiz outside of class without prior permission, that is a form of academic dishonesty, and I am required to report that. So make sure you take the quizzes in class. Okay, so get out of bed and come to class and then take them. Uh, they will be weekly. There's, uh, you'll have five minutes to complete them. I do drop the lowest two scores. Okay. It's automatic in canvas. So, um, your one this Thursday is an easy, easy quiz. Okay. Uh, with eye usage, uh, for. I don't want to read anything that is generated by I. Please don't send me an email generated by AI. Okay. Um, you know, when it's by AI. AI is so formal unless you tell it not to write. Uh, I like brevity. I like to be succinct. I'll talk about that on the exams as well. Okay. So, um, I don't want to waste my time reading that, so just, you know, write your own words. I appreciate grammar mistakes. Don't ask the eye to make grammar mistakes, okay? I don't have the best grammar. Okay. So, um, so you cannot you cannot use AI in this course, so you cannot use it for the code. You cannot use it for generating answers to your questions. In fact, I think you'll find it very hard to do because the things you'll be doing are very active on your VM. Okay. Um, but we will take a look at AI and code generation in the sense that AI doesn't always suggest secure code. And why do you think that is? Any ideas? Why do you think? Yeah, because it draws from, like, the old code that's out on the internet. And a lot of that is. Bingo. You got it. That's exactly right. So we'll take a look at some examples with that. So um, I'll show you some examples when we take a look at PHP. The first code suggestion it had was uh SQL injection vulnerability. And if you push that to production uh, that's on you, right. It's not you're not going to say, well, ChatGPT told me to do that, right? Um, so we'll take a look at that. Uh, you can read the class, uh, conduct an academic integrity policy. Um, if you have an accommodation, uh, I should get an email about that. And I do, uh, process all those. So, uh, just work with ot's, uh, on that. All right. Uh, and the other document on here, I'll just quickly go through it. Uh, because you would have hopefully read it is the FAQ. I put this document together. Uh, because there are a list of questions I receive. Any kind of change to office hours, I will post a change for that week. Uh, so I think I have a doctor's appointment coming up on a Wednesday that's going to affect my office hours. Um, during office hours, you don't need to email me. Just come on by. They're there for you to stop by. And if you are, you don't need to knock on the door. Just walk right in. Okay. Unless I'm meeting with another student, then that's kind of rude, right? Um, but they're there for you. Um, with emails, like I said, I'll typically respond to in 24 hours. Sometimes I get requests for recommendation letters. You have to be either in my research group, or I have to do some other project with you to write a recommendation letter. You want strong recommendation letters, and it's really hard for me to write one, especially like in a class of like 150 students, to really get to be able to know you and be able to write that. Um, so that's just my policy with that, uh, for working with a partner, I will be clear on every assignment or project if you can or not. Um, if you submit the wrong files and then you ask to resubmit, please make sure you double check. Every assignment will allow an unlimited number of submissions up to the due date. So if you realize you submit the wrong file, hurry up and get it corrected. It's on you to make sure you submit the right thing. Right. So it's like applying the job. You submit the wrong resume. Well, that's on you, right? So make sure you submit the correct files. Um, I don't allow any submissions past the due date, because then I have to open that up to everybody, and then that's just a big mess. Um, for indicating if you work with a partner, you just put that in the comment on the right hand side of canvas. Don't hide it within. Like the PDF. You can also list it like in a PDF or in the code for extra credit that would be applied to um. Did I spell exception? Oh no. That's underlined. Um, for, uh, extra credit that is provided to the entire class on an individual basis, uh, for extensions on assignments or projects. That's for a truly exceptional case. I'll sometimes get emails from students saying, I'm really busy. Um, you know, whatnot. Those aren't exceptional circumstances. I had a student last year that rescued a person from drowning. That's exceptional. Okay, um, if you're busy with another project that's not exceptional, that's life. Okay. So, um, so that's my policy on there. If there's an error in grading any assignment, exam, what can you do? Um, you have to let me know one week after it's graded. Okay. So we'll review the exams in class. Uh, if there's an error, you can get it corrected if you're trying to barter. That's different. Okay, we're not going to do a bartering session after every class. Okay, so on any air, you just contact me on that. But you have a week. Don't wait until the end of the semester and then air your grievances to try to boost your grade. Okay, so you've got one week after that. Uh, if you ask me, at the end of the semester. Hey, um, can I get this change or whatever? I'll just refer to FAQ on the exam. We already talked about that. You forget the assignment. Um, just refer to the assignment policy on that. After two days, that's it. Um, for the final exam, let's say at the end of the semester, you want to take a look at the final exam. You could schedule a time with me after the summer break to review it. Once final exam week starts. Like. Like somebody call the exam season for, uh, instructors. It's like grading health. Okay. All the exams that we have to do. So for your class, I have to do not just the exams, but then the survey paper. So if you want to review it after completion, you can always schedule a time with me afterwards. Yeah. You don't have to suffer. Great. You still want to take a look at it? Yeah. You can send me an email. I won't send a digital copy of it, though. They're all paper based. Yeah, but. But we could figure out sometime. But the thing I'm trying to avoid, too, is, uh, there are students that I found that will always try to barter, and I don't want that. So. But if it's purely. Yeah. Barter. So. Well, maybe not bartering, but like, trying to negotiate like a better grade or something like that. Yeah. Yeah. But anyway, so yeah, if you want to see you can always come by and see it. I don't have office hours during final exams week because I'm busy giving final exams. The class schedule is different, so it's different for my office hours and I'm busy grading for bumping up or running up grades. Uh, please don't email me asking that. Uh, if you get an 89.99, that is your grade. great part of the reasoning behind that is because it wouldn't be fair to a student that got a 99.99 to say that you did the equal work. Okay. So just leave no doubt in the end, do the good work. This class could definitely get an an okay. And I don't change categories for grades to kind of bump up a grade. So I got a request last year about can you bump up the extra credit for doing the course eval to put it in the exam category to boost my grade? And no, I can't do that. Okay. So anyway, so that's the FAQ. All right. Um, so let me just talk a little bit about technical technical requirements and then the assignments. But any questions in the FAQ. The syllabus. No. All right. So right off the bat you have three assignments that are given uh for the undergrads is just two for the grads. It's three. Okay. Um, the VM creation I'm going to bump this up to the top that is due, uh, Thursday because we're going to use it on Thursday. Okay. All you have to do for this is get the VM set up and you submit a screenshot running for commands on there. That's it. Okay. Um, now I do want to give you a warning. Um, when you are setting up your VM, don't try to multitask and do other things. You kind of want to let it do its thing. Um, there's instructions on there for the commands I want you to run. Uh, but this is all that you submit as a screenshot. One other thing, too. When you do a screenshot, use the built in tools for your operating system. So like if you have a mac man, I would say command shift, command control my finger. Just go there. I don't remember, but command control shift four on windows is probably like Windows Shift apps. Don't take a picture of your screen with your phone. I've had people do this and there's a reflection and there's some things I would like to erase from my memory. Okay. All right. A person was on the toilet. All right, so please don't do that, okay? All right, so, um, that's going to stick with me forever now. See? I'm scarred. But anyways, just so use the tool that you have available, um, for the VM if you're on an Intel based machine. And so if you got a windows machine, uh, you probably have an Intel based machine. You could download VMware workstation, you could download VirtualBox. Um, most students seem that it seems that workstation works the best for them. It's free software. You could download that. And that is your virtualization software. If you're on a mac that runs an M1, M2, M3 and so on. You can use VMware fusion. Parallels is paid. You could try VirtualBox as well. Okay. Now that's your virtualization software. That's just a run of VM. You will then need to download uh ubuntu. Or if you if you want to use a different version of Linux, you could do that too. As long as Debian base, I include there a link to the arm based edition. So if you have an M1 or M2 and so on processor, that's what you'll want to use. If you have an Intel based machine, you'll want to use this. So if you're on a mac and you're not sure, do I have an ARM based processor or an ARM based processor, you can just do, uh, about this Mac, and then you'll see the chip here. It'll say what type of chip it is. If it doesn't say Intel, then you're on an ARM based processor. Okay. And you can use that. Okay. All right. So let's do this. There's a three quick commands that you run. One other quick note. This is a common gotcha when you, uh that's blurry. But when you set up your VM, if it says a ubuntu at your host name, you did not set it up correctly. You're running off a live image. It should say the username that you have in there. That's also in the instructions as well. Okay. Alright, so that's due Thursday. So I want you to definitely focus on that. The other two, the developing secure software. That's your certificate. All you do is upload a certificate. That's it. And then a link that can verify your certificate. That's due on the last day class, which is April 28th, which is on Monday, which to me is weird to have a last day of class on a Monday, but it is what it is. And the survey papers, only those that are registered for SDS for 44, if you're registered for 444 444, um, and you want to switch to 344, be careful because the class is full. And so if you don't want to do the survey paper and you want to jump to 344, I can't do anything for you. You have to do that in sis. So if you decide to bow out of 444 and a student takes your spot, I cannot override and kick that student out to let you in. So you want to do 344 now. So for those registered for 444, the grad level version of the class, You have to do a survey paper. Okay. You can work on this in groups. What I want you to do is take a look at an area that intersects with security. So it could be like embedded security. Mobile security. Right? Maybe physical security, whatever it might be. And you're doing a survey of like, what's the latest state of the art in that field? And you submit that at the end of the semester. I include a LaTeX template within there that you can use either an Overleaf or if you want to store LaTeX locally. Um, and I think it's maybe like five pages, 5 or 6 pages. So it's not it's not a huge assignment. But with both the DS, you definitely want to get started on these early. Okay. You don't want to wait until last week. All right. So, um, I think I did everything I wanted to talk about. Any questions? Yeah. Um, where are the meetings that we're supposed to be in? Yeah, in the textbook. That's right. So if you take a look at the syllabus, I'll reference which book. There's two books reference there. I'll reference which book it is and then what chapter to look at. So we don't follow it necessarily in the order of the chapter. So sometimes you know, mostly you'll see foundations of information security. And then here you see computer security fundamentals. It'll tell you what chapter to focus on. Yeah. Look. Thursday. Thursday. Bring your computer every day. Every day is a hands on class. Yeah. We'll be working on the VM every day. You won't learn by me talking up here. I don't think so. Yeah. I want to ask you. I just wanted to say that. Uh, well, like my personal preference, I use parallels, but parallels is paid for. Uh, you have to buy it. And, you know, like every software now, it's not. They try to, like, steer you to, like, a subscription based model, but you can't pay for it once there is an education discount on it. But I really like parallels. I've used fusion. Fusion sign VirtualBox. Kind of finicky. Yeah. As you're setting up your VM, if you try to do too many things on your laptop, you may see that kind of just spins there and it gets hung up. Just restart it from scratch. Okay. Other questions. All right. I'll see you all on Thursday. Uh, by the end of the day today, do plan to send out who the Tas are. So if you have a question in the VM, you can reach out to either me or to them, and I'll see you all then. Hi. Hi. So I'm not a. Computer security. Okay. I have not taken the time. I have taken when I was in senior high school. Okay. And I did. I got a hold on it, so I got it. Yeah. I think it's been a while, but I'm confident. I'm very good at relearning things very quickly. Like, I know, I know, I know the general structure. I know the comment. I know I think it'll be interesting. Yeah. So. So we got this. I just want to make sure this is like, oh no no no no no no no no no no no it's not, it's not. So I really want to take a class. But we. Also would have coding but not so our cryptography. Well yeah. So the first assignment is going to be assignment. Assignment. After that as far as. That will be a very good point. Yeah. Okay. I just wanted to make sure because it's been four years. Yeah, I get it. I get it. Thank you so much. Every day. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. So we might remember this is. It was pretty brief because my whole life before that we also met like this. So I'm like okay. Okay. So essentially the process from now, like for the future is a problem like experience. How do you want to go Okay. That's okay. No. It's overboard. Yeah. Um, on Wednesday, we had, like, sort of like a five minute presentation. Okay. Um, we should decide who's going to go for that. Okay. I think so. Okay. But we should be fine. Okay. Okay. If you guys need me. Okay. Um, you guys are so active on discord. Like, when I go up there, I feel like I got it all right. Yeah. I'm just catching up. Yeah. And I think I put out there. You probably saw it, I think. Or flipper? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So whatever. You guys want to do stuff like that, you know? Okay. Yeah. Keep me posted. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. That's good. So, actually, I couldn't resist. Yeah. So I just wanted to show you what I mean. Yeah. So I just wanted to work for. So that I can do it. So. Yeah. So here's the only thing. If you if you. So if anybody's asking about moving. 344 to 445 if you get out of six, I can't move you to 444 or vice versa. If you get out, somebody might take your spot and then the class is full and we can't accommodate anymore in this room. Yeah. So that's the only thing you should be cautious about. So can I request for that? That would all be true. So you I think you would actually have to leave the class and then go back and enforce those four. I think. Yeah. And so and then there's a risk that you don't get back into the class. Yeah. So the court is already screwed. So let's face it, the whole class is full. Okay. Yeah. Because it takes the combine between the two and it sets a half a 150 basis. Okay. So I have to do that. I'm going to do this. You can do the survey, but you would have to do it. You have to register for 444.

SPEAKER
Cool.

UNKNOWN
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Can you run the risk of not being an astronaut? That's what I'm trying to warn you. Okay. Yeah. Hi. Oh, okay. Hi. Oh, yeah. Similar question, but, um. It's the. It's like a panic test for students who wanted to get into the bathroom. There is. Yeah. Is it because I think it's odd. So once this is available. This is not automatic. I think so. I think so. Okay. So that's it? Yeah. That's your question? No. It's just. I thought it was for classes before. Okay. Yeah. So. Yeah. It's risky. Okay. Yeah. If nobody was added on, I think. Easier, right? Yeah. Yeah. Are you looking to go from 344 to 4? 44? Oh. From 440. I registered for 444. 44. 44. So you can get, like, a credit? Yeah, I might as well just do it. Okay. All right. So I never took the intro class. I like the lab. Of course, they were not allowed by that number for the job. Or do you think I would still be able to, like, do this course? Or something I could learn. Do you think there is something you could learn? It will be challenging now because of the two sides that you have. So you just learned that theory as well on those? Um, you certainly focus on those. So if you have a person in your class, you'd like to see what you can learn from that as well. Okay. So I don't want you to miss out on the class because you don't have that background in Java. So if you paired up with somebody who does and then, of course, if you could, you know, learn from that as well. Are the exams selected? Do they have any coding aspect. A little bit. Yeah a little bit. But it's not a coding exam. So it's not like a practical thing. You have to write some software but you shouldn't play with it. Hello. All right. Sounds good. Yeah. I wanted to just introduce myself because I have a lot of food issues. And so I tend to have, like, unexplained random absences that I can't predict. And I talked to the school about it and see if I can have a visual option or something. And they said, just like this, the class and stay in and recover and then come back. So I'm working. I just I have a you should be getting an email soon for disability services. I might have already. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I just want to introduce social media, which is like a missing class or something. And I'd like to just deal with this in case of people. So we'll be recording on April 16th. No excuse if it's a major issue and I, I that's my policy, but I just I always know for it or like if I can't physically send an email I always, you know after. Okay. And if I don't respond like Let's just do this right here, or my neck feels so close. I think about that. And I also have one more question. Yeah, it's a stupid question. I just don't know what it's all about. Computers. But my laptop is an energy processor. Yeah. There you go. So, should I look for the lace sheets in couples? Oh, yeah. Good question. Yeah, I should have been specific about that. It's more based on the architecture that it uses. That's what I figured. But I also didn't like, want to download the wrong one. Yeah, it's a good question. Especially because we have our the and the. Yeah. Oh, no. I'm just not really familiar with the Mac system. So I was like, yeah, you'll be okay. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks for the collaboration. Yeah. So so not only our interest of that course. So I just made a request to permission. Request to enroll in that course. But that is when you send them. anything for a week about a week back. Okay, um, I've gotten some help with that. I can take a look at today. The courses of, like, 411. What's your problem? Your computers are outside of that, uh, predominantly welcome uh, to to actually. Okay. So there's one to, like, general interest to explore this, uh, device. Actually, I became a. Student. Uh, well, uh, certainly frameworks. Uh, okay. Do anything for shooting? Yeah. Okay. Sometimes accidental shooting. Oh, okay. Okay, okay. And then if you want to show up. Uh, yeah. I don't want to take that out of the question. Yeah. So what happened was a laptop like that? Okay. What's wrong? So I just thought I thought so. Should we try January 20th? So we do have to start on 16. Right. So. So what should I do? Um, when you submit it, just putting a note in there to be part. Um. And that you, uh. Oh. Are you adjusting the projector? Oh, thanks. I'll do you good. Um, I didn't know there was that remote over there. No, it was in my pocket. Oh, okay. Um, we don't get these lying around. It makes sense. Um. You know. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. How are you? Hi. Hi. I don't really have to talk to you. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. I think that's okay. I'm different from trying to explain. Yeah. Not today. Not today. But I will email you. You might have some other students for the course as a team. Um, and then he said, like the teaching principles of the course. Um, so, yeah, I'll be in touch. Yeah, I think I can go. I'll go. You can drop if you like. Yeah. Yeah, we can wait for later. Okay. Yeah, I'll be there. All right. Sounds good. See you then. Oh, perfect. Thank you. You're welcome. I have no idea how I've got this line for any new projects we put in over the break. Oh, is that right? Huh? Maybe a little earthquake or something. Are you all good? I can disconnect. Thank you. Appreciate it.
